The paper focuses on MS COCO and its COCO -Text datasheet and how it aims to improve scene understanding as well as object recognition. The dataset can be used to improve scene text detection and improve the abilities of existing methods. Using three state-of-the-art photo optical character recognition (OCR) the paper describes the effectiveness of using the dataset compared to other datasets.  It provides three reasons why the COCO-Text datasheet is more effective than other datasheets. Firstly, the images that are selected for the dataset are not focused on the text to better represent text instances in their natural context. This is important because it can help improve the ability to detect the text in complex environments. Second is that the dataset incorporates a wide variety of text instances that annotates fine-grained categories such as machine printed text and handwritten text. Finally, the COCO-Text is one of the largest datasets compared to other datasets having over 14 times more annotations than related datasheets.
The dataset contains 63,686 images with 172,589 labeled text regions and was created with the intent to help evaluate shortcomings of existing methods.  An essential part of the dataset is having a cost efficient yet high quality annotation pipeline. They employ various mechanisms to provide high quality annotation that revolve around training annotators to provide quality annotations.The annotation pipeline has three steps: Detecting text regions, classifying them into fine-grained categories and transcription. In the detecting text regions it uses the OCR input as a human annotator to find text then continues to use human workers to find text not found by an OCR to help improve training. This goes on to talk about how the frequency of findings and removing false positives help improve the results. The fine-grained text classification helps determine the legibility of the text and if it is in english or not. It aims for high recall of legible text and being able to classify types of text. In the transcription phase the collection is looked over by workers and finds errors to improve quality. 
In the dataset statistics they analyze COCO-Text and compare it to other scene text datasets. They attribute the COCO-Text based on MSCOCO to the three key differences discussed before why it is more effective than other datasets. OCR algorithms from collaborators used the dataset and showed to have good detection and recognition accuracy but not very good to be able to recognize handwritten text. Handwritten text is still a difficult form to be able to detect and current OCR algorithms are not supposed to detect or transcribe them. The COCO-Text is the first large-scale dataset for text in natural images and also the first dataset to annotate scene text with attributes such and legibility and type of text. The results indicate satisfactory precision but has room to improve and can be a valuable resource towards image text detection.
